Today we're going to look at how you can take speech and turn it into text using AI.
And the really crazy thing is that it does a better job than most humans.
You can use it with English and 96 other languages.
It works even if you have a lot of background noise.
And it also works if you have a deadly sick accent.
The best part is that it's completely free and also open source.
Let's check out how to do this.
We're going to use an AI tool called Whisper.
Whisper is made by a company called OpenAI.
And you might have heard of them before.
That's the same company behind the immensely popular ChatGPT, which allows you to converse with a computer.
There are also the company behind Dolly2, where you can type in some text and then it'll generate an image based on that text.
You can install Whisper directly on your computer.
You can click on the link right up above.
But you do need a somewhat capable computer.
So instead, we're going to use something called Google Collaboratory.
This allows you to run code directly in your web browser.
So it doesn't really matter what type of PC you have.
To use Google Collaboratory, head to Google Drive.
You can click on the link right up above.
You'll need a Google account.
And if you don't have one yet, it's entirely free to set up.
On Google Drive, in the top left-hand corner, let's click on the New button.
And at the very bottom, let's click on More.
And then go down to Connect More Apps.
At the top of this dialog, let's click into the search field.
And here, type in Google Collaboratory and then Search.
Here, we see this result for Collaboratory.
Let's click on that.
And here, let's click on Install.
Next, let's click on Continue.
Next, you should see a message saying that Google Collaboratory was connected to Google Drive.
Let's click on OK.
And look at that. It has successfully been installed.
Let's click on Done.
Now, you can close out this window.
Let's now go back to the top left-hand corner.
Click on the New button again.
Then go down to More.
And here, you should now see an option for Google Collaboratory.
Let's click on this one.
This drops us into the Google Collaboratory space.
And at first glance, it might look a little bit intimidating.
But trust me, this is going to be so easy.
And the results are going to be so good.
In the top left-hand corner, first off, let's give our file a name.
This way, you can find your way back to this in the future.
I'll click on Untitled.
Let's double-click on that.
And here, I'll type in Transcribe Audio.
Here, I'll click away. And that's now the name of the file.
Next, let's click on the menu titled Runtime.
And right here, there's the option for Change Runtime Type.
Let's click on that code.
And here, I'll enter this in.
You'll find this in the description, so you can simply copy and paste it from there.
First, we're going to install Whisper.
And we're getting this from GitHub.
This is where all of the code is kept and also maintained.
Once we get that, we're going to install something called FFmpeg.
And this allows us to work with audio and video files.
And although I say we're going to install it, don't worry.
We're not installing anything on your computer.
This is installing it all to the Google Collaboratory.
Once you're all set, over on the left-hand side, let's click on this Run icon.
This will now go through and install Whisper and also FFmpeg.
And it looks like the installation finished in about 23 seconds.
Not too bad.
Over on the left-hand side, let's click on this folder icon.
And you can now drag in an audio file or a video file that you would like to transcribe.
Here, I have an MP3 file, and I'll simply drop this in.
